README.md, before:

# MailFilter AI

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-24%2B-green.svg)](https://nodejs.org/)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.7-blue?logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Ready-blue?logo=docker&logoColor=white)
[![CI](https://github.com/palhamel/mailfilter-ai/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/palhamel/mailfilter-ai/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
![AI Providers](https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-Mistral%20%7C%20Berget-purple?logo=openai&logoColor=white)

AI-powered email filter. Reads digest emails from multiple platforms via IMAP, scores each listing against your personal profile using AI, and sends you a sorted summary email with the best matches on top. Supports multiple AI providers — Mistral AI (default) and Berget AI (EU-sovereign inference).

Great for any type of digest email — job ads, newsletters, property listings, freelance gigs — anything where you get bulk emails and only care about a few. Forward your digests to a dedicated mailbox, define what you're looking for in a simple markdown profile, and let AI do the filtering. Instead of scanning dozens of irrelevant listings every day, you get one clean summary with the best matches ranked first and the noise at the bottom.

## How it works

```
Incoming digest emails (LinkedIn, Indeed, etc.)
    |
    v
IMAP: fetch unread emails
    |
    v
Detect provider -> route to HTML parser
    |
    v
Extract individual listings
    |
    v
AI: score each listing (1-5) against your profile
    |
    v
SMTP: send sorted result email
    |
    v
Log to JSON, repeat on cron schedule
```

1. **Read** - Connects to your mail server via IMAP and fetches unread emails
2. **Detect** - Identifies the email provider (LinkedIn, Indeed, etc.); skips unknown senders
3. **Parse** - Routes to provider-specific HTML parsers to extract individual listings
4. **Evaluate** - Sends each listing to your configured AI provider for scoring against your profile
5. **Send** - Sends a result email with listings sorted by score (best matches first)
6. **Log** - Writes evaluations and errors to daily JSON log files
7. **Repeat** - Runs on a configurable cron schedule (default: every 15 minutes)

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js 24** or later
- **AI API key** — one of:
  - [Mistral AI](https://console.mistral.ai) (default)
  - [Berget AI](https://console.berget.ai) (EU-sovereign, OpenAI-compatible)
- **IMAP/SMTP email account** (any provider that supports password auth)
- Digest emails forwarded to that account

## Quick start

```bash
# Clone
git clone https://github.com/palhamel/mailfilter-ai.git
cd mailfilter-ai

# Install
npm install

# Configure
cp .env.example .env
cp profile.example.md profile.md

# Edit .env with your mail credentials and AI API key
# Edit profile.md with your preferences

# Run
npm run dev
```

## Profile

The profile is a markdown file that defines what you're looking for. It's loaded at startup and used as the AI system prompt for scoring. See [`profile.example.md`](profile.example.md) for the expected format.

Your profile should include:
- **Tech stack** - Languages, frameworks, and tools you work with
- **Interesting listings** - Types of opportunities you're looking for
- **Deal-breakers** - Things that make a listing irrelevant (automatic low score)
- **Blacklisted industries** - Industries you're not interested in (automatic 1 point)
- **Preferences** - Work format, team size, location preferences
- **Matching keywords** - Terms that commonly appear in relevant listings

Set `PROFILE_PATH` in your `.env` to point to your profile file (e.g. `./profile.md`).

## Scoring system

| Score | Category | Meaning |
|-------|----------|---------|
| 5 | Green | Perfect match - act immediately |
| 4 | Green | Strong match - worth checking out |
| 3 | Yellow | Interesting but missing something |
| 2 | *(none)* | Weak match |
| 1 | *(none)* | Irrelevant or wrong fit |

## AI providers

The evaluator uses a provider-agnostic `AIClient` interface, making it easy to switch or add providers.

| Provider | `AI_PROVIDER` | API | Notes |
|----------|---------------|-----|-------|
| **Mistral AI** | `mistral` (default) | Mistral SDK | Fast, affordable text classification |
| **Berget AI** | `berget` | OpenAI-compatible (native fetch) | EU-sovereign inference, no data leaves Europe |

To switch provider, set `AI_PROVIDER` and the corresponding API key in your `.env`:

```env
AI_PROVIDER=berget
BERGET_API_KEY=your-key-here
BERGET_MODEL=llama-3.3-70b-instruct
```

Adding a new OpenAI-compatible provider requires only a new adapter in `src/ai/providers.ts`.

## Environment variables

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `MAIL_USER` | Yes | - | Email address for IMAP/SMTP auth |
| `MAIL_PASSWORD` | Yes | - | Password for IMAP/SMTP auth |
| `IMAP_HOST` | Yes | - | IMAP server hostname (e.g. `mail.provider.com`) |
| `SMTP_HOST` | Yes | - | SMTP server hostname (e.g. `mail.provider.com`) |
| `NOTIFY_EMAIL` | Yes | - | Email address to receive result digests |
| `PROFILE_PATH` | Yes | - | Path to your profile markdown file |
| `AI_PROVIDER` | No | `mistral` | AI provider: `mistral` or `berget` |
| `MISTRAL_API_KEY` | Yes | - | Mistral AI API key |
| `MISTRAL_MODEL` | No | `mistral-small-latest` | Mistral model to use |
| `BERGET_API_KEY` | No | - | Berget AI API key (required when `AI_PROVIDER=berget`) |
| `BERGET_MODEL` | No | `llama-3.3-70b-instruct` | Berget model to use |
| `MAILBOX_CHECK_INTERVAL_MINUTES` | No | `15` | Minutes between mailbox checks |
| `LOG_DIR` | No | `./data/logs` | Directory for JSON log files |
| `DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL` | No | - | Discord webhook for error/status notifications |
| `HEALTH_PORT` | No | `3000` | HTTP health endpoint port |

## Supported email providers

Each provider has a dedicated HTML parser in `src/mail/parsers/`:

| Provider | Detection |
|----------|-----------|
| **LinkedIn** | Sender contains `linkedin` |
| **Webbjobb** | Sender contains `webbjobb` |
| **Indeed** | Sender contains `indeed` |
| **Demando** | Sender contains `demando` |

Emails from unrecognized providers are skipped and logged.

### Adding a new provider

1. Create `src/mail/parsers/provider-name.ts` exporting a parse function
2. Add detection rule in `detectProvider()` in `parser.ts`
3. Add routing in the digest parser in `parser.ts`
4. Add tests in `src/mail/__tests__/parser.test.ts`

## Docker

```bash
docker build -t mailfilter-ai .
docker run \
  --env-file .env \
  -v ./profile.md:/app/profile.md:ro \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  mailfilter-ai
```

The image uses a multi-stage build with non-root user and a built-in HEALTHCHECK. Mount your profile file into the container with `-v`.

## Scripts

```bash
npm run dev         # Run with tsx (loads .env automatically)
npm run build       # Compile TypeScript
npm start           # Run compiled output
npm test            # Run tests (vitest)
npm run lint        # ESLint with TypeScript rules
npm run typecheck   # Type check without emitting
```

## Project structure

```
src/
  index.ts              # Entry point, cron scheduler, startup
  pipeline.ts           # Email processing pipeline (fetch, parse, evaluate, send)
  config/
    env.ts              # Zod environment validation
  ai/
    providers.ts        # AI provider factory (Mistral, Berget)
    evaluator.ts        # Provider-agnostic evaluation logic
    prompt.ts           # System prompt builder (loads profile from PROFILE_PATH)
  mail/
    reader.ts           # IMAP: fetch unread emails
    parser.ts           # Provider detection, routing to parsers
    sender.ts           # SMTP: send result digest emails
    parsers/            # Provider-specific HTML parsers
  logger/
    index.ts            # JSON file logging (evaluations + errors + rotation)
  health/
    index.ts            # Health file writer
    check.ts            # Docker HEALTHCHECK script
  http/
    server.ts           # HTTP health endpoint (native node:http)
  notifications/
    discord.ts          # Discord webhook (native fetch)
    index.ts            # Error buffering and flush
  stats/
    index.ts            # In-memory run statistics
  utils/
    retry.ts            # Generic retry with exponential backoff
    delay.ts            # Simple sleep utility
  types/
    index.ts            # Shared TypeScript interfaces
```

## Robustness

- **IMAP retry** - 3 attempts with exponential backoff
- **AI retry** - 2 attempts per evaluation, retries on 429/500/503
- **Rate limiting** - 750ms delay between AI evaluations
- **Graceful shutdown** - SIGTERM/SIGINT stop cron, wait for in-flight work, notify Discord
- **Error logging** - Errors written to daily JSON log files
- **Log rotation** - Logs older than 30 days deleted on startup
- **Discord notifications** - Startup, shutdown, critical failures, batched errors
- **Health check** - Docker HEALTHCHECK + HTTP endpoint for external monitoring
- **Crash handlers** - uncaughtException/unhandledRejection logged and notified

## Tech stack

- **Runtime:** Node.js 24 LTS, TypeScript (strict, ESM)
- **Email:** IMAP (`imap` + `mailparser`), SMTP (`nodemailer`)
- **AI:** Multi-provider (Mistral AI, Berget AI), deterministic scoring (`temperature: 0`)
- **Parsing:** Cheerio for HTML email parsing
- **Validation:** Zod for environment config
- **Scheduling:** node-cron
- **Testing:** Vitest
- **CI:** GitHub Actions (lint, typecheck, test, build, audit)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: clarify MailFilter AI is a self-hosted server in README

README.md, after:

# MailFilter AI

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-24%2B-green.svg)](https://nodejs.org/)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.7-blue?logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-Ready-blue?logo=docker&logoColor=white)
[![CI](https://github.com/palhamel/mailfilter-ai/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/palhamel/mailfilter-ai/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
![AI Providers](https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-Mistral%20%7C%20Berget-purple?logo=openai&logoColor=white)

AI-powered email filter. Reads digest emails from multiple platforms via IMAP, scores each listing against your personal profile using AI, and sends you a sorted summary email with the best matches on top. Supports multiple AI providers — Mistral AI (default) and Berget AI (EU-sovereign inference).

**MailFilter AI is a self-hosted server** — it runs continuously on a schedule, checking your mailbox and sending you summaries automatically. Deploy it with Docker or run it directly with Node.js.

Great for any type of digest email — job ads, newsletters, property listings, freelance gigs — anything where you get bulk emails and only care about a few. Forward your digests to a dedicated mailbox, define what you're looking for in a simple markdown profile, and let AI do the filtering. Instead of scanning dozens of irrelevant listings every day, you get one clean summary with the best matches ranked first and the noise at the bottom.

## How it works

```
Incoming digest emails (LinkedIn, Indeed, etc.)
    |
    v
IMAP: fetch unread emails
    |
    v
Detect provider -> route to HTML parser
    |
    v
Extract individual listings
    |
    v
AI: score each listing (1-5) against your profile
    |
    v
SMTP: send sorted result email
    |
    v
Log to JSON, repeat on cron schedule
```

1. **Read** - Connects to your mail server via IMAP and fetches unread emails
2. **Detect** - Identifies the email provider (LinkedIn, Indeed, etc.); skips unknown senders
3. **Parse** - Routes to provider-specific HTML parsers to extract individual listings
4. **Evaluate** - Sends each listing to your configured AI provider for scoring against your profile
5. **Send** - Sends a result email with listings sorted by score (best matches first)
6. **Log** - Writes evaluations and errors to daily JSON log files
7. **Repeat** - Runs on a configurable cron schedule (default: every 15 minutes)

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js 24** or later
- **AI API key** — one of:
  - [Mistral AI](https://console.mistral.ai) (default)
  - [Berget AI](https://console.berget.ai) (EU-sovereign, OpenAI-compatible)
- **IMAP/SMTP email account** (any provider that supports password auth)
- Digest emails forwarded to that account

## Quick start

```bash
# Clone
git clone https://github.com/palhamel/mailfilter-ai.git
cd mailfilter-ai

# Install
npm install

# Configure
cp .env.example .env
cp profile.example.md profile.md

# Edit .env with your mail credentials and AI API key
# Edit profile.md with your preferences

# Run
npm run dev
```

## Profile

The profile is a markdown file that defines what you're looking for. It's loaded at startup and used as the AI system prompt for scoring. See [`profile.example.md`](profile.example.md) for the expected format.

Your profile should include:
- **Tech stack** - Languages, frameworks, and tools you work with
- **Interesting listings** - Types of opportunities you're looking for
- **Deal-breakers** - Things that make a listing irrelevant (automatic low score)
- **Blacklisted industries** - Industries you're not interested in (automatic 1 point)
- **Preferences** - Work format, team size, location preferences
- **Matching keywords** - Terms that commonly appear in relevant listings

Set `PROFILE_PATH` in your `.env` to point to your profile file (e.g. `./profile.md`).

## Scoring system

| Score | Category | Meaning |
|-------|----------|---------|
| 5 | Green | Perfect match - act immediately |
| 4 | Green | Strong match - worth checking out |
| 3 | Yellow | Interesting but missing something |
| 2 | *(none)* | Weak match |
| 1 | *(none)* | Irrelevant or wrong fit |

## AI providers

The evaluator uses a provider-agnostic `AIClient` interface, making it easy to switch or add providers.

| Provider | `AI_PROVIDER` | API | Notes |
|----------|---------------|-----|-------|
| **Mistral AI** | `mistral` (default) | Mistral SDK | Fast, affordable text classification |
| **Berget AI** | `berget` | OpenAI-compatible (native fetch) | EU-sovereign inference, no data leaves Europe |

To switch provider, set `AI_PROVIDER` and the corresponding API key in your `.env`:

```env
AI_PROVIDER=berget
BERGET_API_KEY=your-key-here
BERGET_MODEL=llama-3.3-70b-instruct
```

Adding a new OpenAI-compatible provider requires only a new adapter in `src/ai/providers.ts`.

## Environment variables

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `MAIL_USER` | Yes | - | Email address for IMAP/SMTP auth |
| `MAIL_PASSWORD` | Yes | - | Password for IMAP/SMTP auth |
| `IMAP_HOST` | Yes | - | IMAP server hostname (e.g. `mail.provider.com`) |
| `SMTP_HOST` | Yes | - | SMTP server hostname (e.g. `mail.provider.com`) |
| `NOTIFY_EMAIL` | Yes | - | Email address to receive result digests |
| `PROFILE_PATH` | Yes | - | Path to your profile markdown file |
| `AI_PROVIDER` | No | `mistral` | AI provider: `mistral` or `berget` |
| `MISTRAL_API_KEY` | Yes | - | Mistral AI API key |
| `MISTRAL_MODEL` | No | `mistral-small-latest` | Mistral model to use |
| `BERGET_API_KEY` | No | - | Berget AI API key (required when `AI_PROVIDER=berget`) |
| `BERGET_MODEL` | No | `llama-3.3-70b-instruct` | Berget model to use |
| `MAILBOX_CHECK_INTERVAL_MINUTES` | No | `15` | Minutes between mailbox checks |
| `LOG_DIR` | No | `./data/logs` | Directory for JSON log files |
| `DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL` | No | - | Discord webhook for error/status notifications |
| `HEALTH_PORT` | No | `3000` | HTTP health endpoint port |

## Supported email providers

Each provider has a dedicated HTML parser in `src/mail/parsers/`:

| Provider | Detection |
|----------|-----------|
| **LinkedIn** | Sender contains `linkedin` |
| **Webbjobb** | Sender contains `webbjobb` |
| **Indeed** | Sender contains `indeed` |
| **Demando** | Sender contains `demando` |

Emails from unrecognized providers are skipped and logged.

### Adding a new provider

1. Create `src/mail/parsers/provider-name.ts` exporting a parse function
2. Add detection rule in `detectProvider()` in `parser.ts`
3. Add routing in the digest parser in `parser.ts`
4. Add tests in `src/mail/__tests__/parser.test.ts`

## Docker

```bash
docker build -t mailfilter-ai .
docker run \
  --env-file .env \
  -v ./profile.md:/app/profile.md:ro \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  mailfilter-ai
```

The image uses a multi-stage build with non-root user and a built-in HEALTHCHECK. Mount your profile file into the container with `-v`.

## Scripts

```bash
npm run dev         # Run with tsx (loads .env automatically)
npm run build       # Compile TypeScript
npm start           # Run compiled output
npm test            # Run tests (vitest)
npm run lint        # ESLint with TypeScript rules
npm run typecheck   # Type check without emitting
```

## Project structure

```
src/
  index.ts              # Entry point, cron scheduler, startup
  pipeline.ts           # Email processing pipeline (fetch, parse, evaluate, send)
  config/
    env.ts              # Zod environment validation
  ai/
    providers.ts        # AI provider factory (Mistral, Berget)
    evaluator.ts        # Provider-agnostic evaluation logic
    prompt.ts           # System prompt builder (loads profile from PROFILE_PATH)
  mail/
    reader.ts           # IMAP: fetch unread emails
    parser.ts           # Provider detection, routing to parsers
    sender.ts           # SMTP: send result digest emails
    parsers/            # Provider-specific HTML parsers
  logger/
    index.ts            # JSON file logging (evaluations + errors + rotation)
  health/
    index.ts            # Health file writer
    check.ts            # Docker HEALTHCHECK script
  http/
    server.ts           # HTTP health endpoint (native node:http)
  notifications/
    discord.ts          # Discord webhook (native fetch)
    index.ts            # Error buffering and flush
  stats/
    index.ts            # In-memory run statistics
  utils/
    retry.ts            # Generic retry with exponential backoff
    delay.ts            # Simple sleep utility
  types/
    index.ts            # Shared TypeScript interfaces
```

## Robustness

- **IMAP retry** - 3 attempts with exponential backoff
- **AI retry** - 2 attempts per evaluation, retries on 429/500/503
- **Rate limiting** - 750ms delay between AI evaluations
- **Graceful shutdown** - SIGTERM/SIGINT stop cron, wait for in-flight work, notify Discord
- **Error logging** - Errors written to daily JSON log files
- **Log rotation** - Logs older than 30 days deleted on startup
- **Discord notifications** - Startup, shutdown, critical failures, batched errors
- **Health check** - Docker HEALTHCHECK + HTTP endpoint for external monitoring
- **Crash handlers** - uncaughtException/unhandledRejection logged and notified

## Tech stack

- **Runtime:** Node.js 24 LTS, TypeScript (strict, ESM)
- **Email:** IMAP (`imap` + `mailparser`), SMTP (`nodemailer`)
- **AI:** Multi-provider (Mistral AI, Berget AI), deterministic scoring (`temperature: 0`)
- **Parsing:** Cheerio for HTML email parsing
- **Validation:** Zod for environment config
- **Scheduling:** node-cron
- **Testing:** Vitest
- **CI:** GitHub Actions (lint, typecheck, test, build, audit)

## License

MIT
